I have this file.
Hello, world dot pi sitting in the master branch.
If I run the git branch command, you will see there is only one branch master.
And if I run git log, dash, dash one line, you will see there's only one comet.
At this point, I'm going to create a branch feature one and note that currently the head is sitting
at the master.
So when I run this Git branch feature one, this new branch will look at the latest comment from the
branch master.
If we run Git branch again you will see we have two branches but the head is still sitting at the master
to switch the head to the feature.
One branch we need to run git switch command let's run git switch feature one if we run get branch again
you will see the asterisks or the head has moved to feature one branch.
If I run git log does dash one line again.
It is going to show you that the head is at the feature one branch and both the feature one and Master
Branch is looking at the same commit.
Now while we are sitting at the feature one branch, let's change this program as well as add another
file.
All right, so I change this.
Hello, all file.
I'm going to save this file.
I'm also going to add another file while I'm at the feature one branch.
All right.
I created and saved this test python txt file.
Now I'm going to add and commit this to files in the feature one branch.
To do that I run git add dot.
That means anything that's changed updated in my current folder will be added to the staging area.
Let's commit these changes.
All right.
So at this point, if we run git log again so you can see the head is still at the feature one branch,
but feature one branch has moved ahead, one commit of master.
Now while we are sitting at the feature one branch, let's run git branch command again git branch feature
too.
So this will create a new branch named feature two which commit do you folks think feature two will
look at?
I hope you forgot it.
Remember that branch is nothing but references to a commit since the head is sitting at the feature
one commit feature two will simply look at this comment.
So if we run git log dash dash one line again as expected, head is sitting at feature one, both feature
one feature two branch looking at the latest commit while master is one commit behind.
So at this point I want to merge the changes from feature one to the master branch.
How do I do that?
I switch back to the master branch by running git switch master and I simply run git merge feature one.
This will be a fast forward merge, so the master branch will simply move to look at the latest commit.
No new commit IDs will be added.
Let's check it out.
Let's run git log one line again.
As expected, no new commit ids have been added.
Now all the branches master feature two feature one is looking at the latest commit ID with the head
sitting at the master branch.
At this point I'm going to switch to feature two branch and make some changes.
And I'm going to add and commit these changes.
And I'm also going to switch back to Master Branch and do some further changes.
And I'm going to add another file.
I created this log file txt.
So I'm going to add and commit.
This changes from the master branch.
So before we merge the changes from feature two to this master, there will be situations where some
branches are merged like feature one and some branches are not merged.
How could you tell?
You could tell by running this command.
Get branch dash dash merged will show you the branches that have been marched to the master in this
case.
Feature one and get branch dash dash.
No merged command.
We'll show you the branches that have not been marched to the branch where the head is at currently,
which is master.
When you run just git log command.
It shows you the log for the branch you are currently sitting on to see the logs for all the branches.
Use this git log, dash, dash, all option.
And then with this dash dash one line I want to see the short end log and dash dash graph will give
you somewhat a graphical representation.
So if we run this as expected, head is currently at the master.
Master Branch is looking at this commit and there is a diverging branch feature to feature two.
Branch is looking at this commit.
Now if I run the merge command, this will be a three way march and it will create an additional commit
id.
Let's check it out.
I'm running git merge feature.
Two changes are merged, so I'm going to run the same git log command again.
We have a new commit id and the changes from feature to branch has been merged into the master branch.
I'm sure you guys and gals are wondering what if I changed the same file from these two different branches?
How can it merge then?
Well, that would create a march conflict and we will learn about March conflict in a letter lecture.
All right, folks, that's it for this one.
I'll see you guys and gals in the next one.